Explain server timings usage (#109)
front-commerce/developers.front-commerce.com: source/docs/reference/server-timings.md

---
id: server-timings
title: Server Timings
---

> [Server Timings](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Server-Timing) are metrics that are sent via a header in the response of an HTTP request. They allow you to know which part is slowing a request from your server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
[Server Timings](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/Headers/Server-Timing) are metrics that are sent via a header in the response of an HTTP request. They allow you to see how time is spent on the server from your browser DevTools, so you could optimize it if needed.
```

You can see a representation in your network panel of your devtools by clicking on request and opening the "Timings" tab. Follow these guides for [Firefox](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Tools/Network_Monitor/request_details#Timings)'s or [Google Chrome](https://www.smashingmagazine.com/2018/10/performance-server-timing/#the-server-timing-header)'s devtools.

The Server Timings are enabled when one of the following condition is satisfied:

* `FRONT_COMMERCE_ENV !== "production"`

> * `DEBUG=front-commerce:performance`

Reviewer: We should also add it to https://deploy-preview-109--elastic-austin-cf9d40.netlify.com/docs/reference/environment-variables.html#Debugging

## List of Server Timings registered in the core

The different timings available for an HTML page are:

* **Compute config for request**: how long it took to compute `req.config`
* **Resolve initial template**: how long it took to retrieve the `index.html` template needed for SSR
* **Initialize GraphQL loaders**: how long it took to initialize the GraphQL loaders needed for executing GraphQL queries during SSR
* **React App initialization**: how long it took to create the base React component that will be rendered during SSR

> * **Resolve apollo queries**: how long it took to retrieve all the data needed to render the page

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Resolve Apollo queries**: how long it took to retrieve all the data needed to render the page
```
